Welcome to the awesome multiple sequence alignment (MSA) visualiser.

This tool accepts a MSA and visualize it in a meaningful way customizable by
the user..

A multiple sequence alignment (MSA) is a sequence alignment of three or more
biological sequences, generally protein, DNA, or RNA. In many cases, the input
set of query sequences are assumed to have an evolutionary relationship by
which they share a linkage and are descended from a common ancestor. From the
resulting MSA, sequence homology can be inferred and phylogenetic analysis can
be conducted to assess the sequences' shared evolutionary origins. Visual
depictions of the alignment as in the image at right illustrate mutation events
such as point mutations (single amino acid or nucleotide changes) that appear
as differing characters in a single alignment column, and insertion or deletion
mutations (indels or gaps) that appear as hyphens in one or more of the
sequences in the alignment. Multiple sequence alignment is often used to assess
sequence conservation of protein domains, tertiary and secondary structures,
and even individual amino acids or nucleotides.

Multiple sequence alignment also refers to the process of aligning such a
sequence set. Because three or more sequences of biologically relevant length
can be difficult and are almost always time-consuming to align by hand,
computational algorithms are used to produce and analyze the alignments. MSAs
require more sophisticated methodologies than pairwise alignment because they
are more computationally complex. Most multiple sequence alignment programs use
heuristic methods rather than global optimization because identifying the
optimal alignment between more than a few sequences of moderate length is
prohibitively computationally expensive.
